Hey everyone and thanks for jumping back
into the cryptoverse.
Today we're going to talk about Bitcoin
and we're going to be discussing the
social risk. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
also check out the sale on Into the
Cryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com
where you can get access to the social
risk metric.
Let's go ahead and jump in. So, the
social risk for the cryptoverse
continues to drop. And you know, you
could argue that the entire industry is
sort of having one of these
maturing moments where as a whole the
industry is realizing, "Hey, it can't
just simply survive on hype and and sort
of speculation forever.
You actually have to have products that
that deliver something that that people
actually need."
And you know, this past cycle we and I
talked about this many times throughout
the past cycle, we had so many meme coin
scams and and you know, rug pulls and
whatnot. And for the most part the
industry, you know, in a lot of ways we
lost our way.
And now we're sort of experiencing
what we started to experience sort of
after that 2019 top.
What's interesting though is you know,
after this 2019 top social risk is quite
low, we came back down. But what ended
up happening
was we had a crisis that justified
looser monetary policy, which led to a
lot of money printing, which brought
everyone right back.
The problem the crypto has right now is
that we keep not having a reason for
looser monetary policy.
Stock market keeps going to new all-time
highs and the AI trade has continued.
And so, because of that
rate hikes have actually started to get
priced back in.
Not only because of that, but also
because of geopolitical conflict causing
inflation expectations to or inflation
head back up.
But
what we're experiencing now, we got a
very small glimpse of
in 2019. Now, you might say, well how
does this really compare? Like how how
can we say it's the same?
And as I've said previously
I know there's a lot of people that will
pretend like this 2025 top and the 2019
top are nothing alike because in this
time it was at the end of a 4-year
cycle, even though many of them wouldn't
even agree that there was a 4-year
cycle, but it's at the end of one.
And and also because it was at a new
all-time high. But if you can suspend
disbelief for a moment
we can find plenty of similarities.
And and some of those similarities
include the fact that in 2019
just like in 2025, the Federal Reserve
cut interest rates three times.
Okay?
From back then it was from 2.5% to 1.75.
This time it was 4.5
to 3.75.
So
this is the same thing.
Three rate cuts
75 basis points happened in 2019
happened in 2025.
The other similarity
the balance sheet of the Fed.
Back then, Bitcoin topped
in June.
Quantitative tightening ended in August,
2 months later. In 2025, Bitcoin topped
in October. Quantitative tightening
ended in December. Okay? So, from a
monetary policy perspective you would be
hard-pressed to find
another period that looked as much as
this one. What I've said though is that
the downturn
right? Just happens to correspond to the
mid the normal mid-term year downturn.
And it's fascinating how it how it plays
out like that. So, when you think about
it not through the lens of like what we
normally get at the end of a 4-year
cycle top where it's a euphoric rally
where retail is here like in 2021 and in
2017, we instead had more of a 2019
style top where a social interest never
really came back.
Now, in this case, social interest is
made up of a lot of different metrics.
Uh Google Trend searches are Google
Trends for Bitcoin,
uh the ranking of the Coinbase app,
subscribers to YouTube channels, views
to those crypto YouTube channels, and
then followers to analysts, exchanges,
and layer ones on Twitter, and Wikipedia
page views. And when you look at all of
them, here's the Coinbase app rankings
risk. Here's Google Trends. You have
Wikipedia page views, YouTube subs,
YouTube views, Twitter analysts, Twitter
exchanges, Twitter layer ones. You get
all that stuff. And what we can do is we
can just simply combine them into a
single risk metric uh that looks like
this.
And so, the point of this is when social
interest is low and trending down,
Bitcoin dominance tends to trend up.
Now, don't lose sight of just what
happened recently with Bitcoin dominance
because yes, it has taken a hit, but
guess what? It also took a hit after the
2019 top as well.
Right? It it it struggled for a while
and then the next euphoric rally
dominance went back up to the highs.
So,
when you zoom out
though, you'll see that
as social interest has remained low
since 2021, right? If you look at the
social social interest, you can see it's
been trending down since 2021, and if
you look at Bitcoin dominance, it's been
trending up generally speaking since
2021.
Now, recently it looks like it's stalled
out a little bit, but as I've said
previously, if you actually look at um,
you know, at Bitcoin dominance
excluding stablecoins.
So,
here it is.
Here's normal Bitcoin dominance
including if you exclude them, you can
see the dominance continues to head
higher. So, a lot of similarities and
it's the reason why you know,
the this sort of comparison really helps
us to understand like why retail is
absent. I think there's multiple reasons
why why
why retail is absent if you need a
narrative. Number one, people got tired
of all the meme coin scams. They got
tired of all the speculation in altcoins
that never actually delivered anything.
From a monetary policy perspective, you
had high interest rates and you had
quantitative tightening and and people
were worried more so about paying bills
and and and going to the grocery store
and affording groceries than they were
simply about buying the next rug rug
pull in the cryptoverse. So,
in a some sense like there's been this
like identity problem with the crypto
space. To some degree, I think
presidents launching meme coins sort of
exposed the industry for what it had
become. That wasn't what it always was
in my opinion, but it's what it became.
It's what it became where people stopped
pretending to build anything. Right?
They weren't even trying.
You know, for a while people tried and
then people pretended and then people
stopped pretending to build anything at
all and they were just like, "Oh, go buy
this meme coin." So, there's an identity
problem and we're going through a a
prolonged downturn in social interest.
The bear market still is about the same
length so far, right? But a prolonged
downturn in social interest
and
we've seen it before. This is just a
larger version of what we saw during the
last business cycle and it just happens
to be that this four-year cycle top
occurred when just before quantitative
tightening ended.
Now, if you actually try to understand
any of the things that go into this
metric, one of those would be like
subscribers to various YouTube channels.
I want you to get an idea. Like this is
why altcoins continue to bleed out. Look
at subscribers to YouTube channels.
They're actually a lot of them are
trending negative right now.
Right? They're actually negative.
So, if you zoom in over here,
you can see there's a lot of channels
actually losing subscribers. The same
channels, by the way, that were netting
on average, you know, over a week
period, netting 40 to 50 to 60,000 new
subscribers in a week.
Oh, on average, a lot of these channels
are losing subscribers now.
And so, I hope people can sort of
appreciate why we have spent so much
time covering Bitcoin dominance and
social interest and all that stuff over
the last several years. I know it wasn't
the cool thing to do and everyone wanted
me to show a lot of random crap.
But, when you look back and you're like,
you know what?
There really wasn't a case
for that in this past cycle.
It It made sense to just stick with
Bitcoin in the past crypto market cycle.
It made sense. Right? Retail never came
back. And normally, durable moves in
altcoins occur after a year of generally
trending higher social interest. So,
on average, these channels, 7-day moving
average, are losing about 4 to 500
subscribers a week.
That's a lot, you know? And
it's it just shows you that a lot of
people have, you know, they've matured.
They're like, you know what?
Maybe they're interested in crypto, but
not until it gets its act together.
Now, if you look at
at a Let's Let's change this like a
30-day moving average and see what it
looks like. 30 days, it's still barely
positive, but it's also trended negative
uh for a lot of different channels
throughout that time.
And then if you look at YouTube views,
just so you know, back in 2021, these
channels were averaging 3 to 4 million
views a week.
Um
or on the 7-day moving average, right?
So, I guess No, I guess three to
three to four million views a day, but
it was
but but sort of get an average um we we
sort of average it out over those days
cuz if if you take away the average,
it's very noisy, right? So, if you look
at it like this, you can see that okay,
there are some channels that are getting
say even some days where it was over
four to five million.
But other days it was like
one or two million, right? So, it
averages out to be about three to four
million views per day, and then the
7-day moving average is is just gives
you that average. Now, if you look at it
compared to
today,
right? You can see
very clearly
why there there there's just not a bid.
There's just not a bid because just no
one cares.
And that's just the reality of it. And
unfortunately, in order for people to
care,
I could you know, I could suggest that
it has just to do with with the the
narratives and whatnot, but to some
degree, one of the ways you get people
to care again is you go back to much
looser monetary policy. But there's no
promise of that right now.
In fact, we're more worried about rate
hikes than rate cuts at this point.
So,
you know, crypto is the furthest thing
up the risk curve
uh compared to a lot of these other
markets. It just is. And so, when you
have prolonged periods of higher
interest rates
and quantitative tightening, the
frothier stuff is going to show weakness
first, right? That's why altcoins showed
weakness first, and then Bitcoin is
still further up the risk curve than a
lot of other things, and that's why it's
starting It's been showing weakness for
the last eight or nine months.
My guess is in the back half of this
year, especially kind of late Q3, early
Q4, you'll see the stock market show
weakness. And that might get the Fed to
pivot on some of their views. But until
that happens,
the entire industry is stuck because as
long as the AI trade keeps working,
there's no reason to cut rates. There's
no reason for any of that stuff. And as
long as that happens,
crypto continues to bleed out and and
people leave because they recognize
that, "Hey, for this stuff to do well,
we need a lot looser monetary policy and
we're just simply not getting that right
now."
So, those are my views. This is the
social risk. If you want to get access
to it, you can you can check it out. I
do believe that eventually retail
interest interest in crypto will return.
But it's going to take a while. You
know, it's going to take a while and and
I hope the industry is a is in a better
place once we get to that point where
people can come and and actually not be
led astray by a lot of influencers
blowing smoke.
You know, and and and getting paid to
shill random garbage. I know it's it's,
you know, I know a lot of them sort of
defended and and and say all sorts of
stuff, but the reality is is like a lot
of this stuff a lot of this stuff just
goes to zero. And and, you know, if you
get paid to promote something and you
don't disclose it especially, that's a
problem as well. So, I'd like to see the
industry mature. I'd like to see, you
know, maybe more people start channels
uh and and try to have a bit more
integrity so that when people do come
into the space, they're not immediately
led astray by whoever happens to come
across their YouTube feed. So,
I hope, you know, I hope that this is is
can be the future of the cryptoverse.
Um
but again, this past cycle was was a
complete, you know, I I I I feel like we
just focused on all the wrong things. We
focused on strategic Bitcoin reserves
when they really probably should have
been focusing on the oil reserve at the
time.
Uh we focused on ETFs, which are I mean,
I'm not against the ETFs. I recognize
they serve a purp- purpose, but they are
antithetical to Bitcoin. And we focused
on meme coins. And so, you know, what
did you expect? Right? If you're going
to focus on all the wrong things,
there's no business getting a a euphoric
top because we didn't focus on building
and making the tech better.
What the industry focused on was
products that just would bring more
money in. You see the difference?
When you focus on the right things,
the money will come.
You know, that's true. I I really
believe that.
If you focus on what matters,
the money will come. You don't have to
have all these different products. I
mean, I I don't think this product is
necessarily bad, but you don't have to
have a thousand different products for
the money to come if you build something
that's worth buying.
But if you only focus on the thing the
tools to get more money in and not the
actual technology of the industry,
then that's what causes money to to to
be malinvested. This misallocation of
capital. And it and it doesn't lead to
anything good. And I've seen some people
say that, you know, a lot of the stuff
in the altcoin market, even though it
went to zero, was good because then
people eventually find Bitcoin. That
couldn't be further from the truth. What
happens to a lot of people is they come
in,
they they get shilled crap in the space,
and then they leave thinking that
Bitcoin is just like all the other
stuff. So, a lot of that stuff is not
good for the industry, and we probably
should stop pretending like it is. Okay?
It It's just not. Like printing meme
coins and and and putting like a cute
mascot and saying that like this is a
good investment is just not is not a
good thing. And for a long time, I think
people sort of believed that, all right,
they could just buy this stuff and
eventually it would come back. But the
problem now is that a lot of the
altcoins in 2021 are
are that put in new that put in lows in
2022 are now below those lows in 2026.
That's the problem. And there wasn't
really a major class of new altcoins
that are that are masking that weakness,
right? If you look at at the altcoin
market in general, like total three,
in prior um in in sort of the prior
cycles,
you could argue that you had all these
fresh altcoins that sort of masked the
weakness of the old ones. But now, we
didn't really have as many new ones
because there wasn't at least not that
had a large market cap. There were a lot
of micro cap meme coins, yes, but they
never really durably attracted a lot of
money. Um so, I I think the altcoin
market right now is sort of in this
phase, right? Where it went up,
it went up
like it did in 2019, and then it's just
been fading, right? It's just been
fading for a while, like it did in the
back half of 2019 going into early 2020.
That's where we are right now, in my
opinion. That's where the altcoin market
is, and and you know, it's sort of in
this, again, this post apathetic top
digestion phase, where people are like,
"Oh, there's no alt season. What gives?"
And then it's kind of slowly bleeds out
as people give up.
And coincidentally, the 4-year cycle
just happens to remain intact once
again. So,
you know, keep an eye on the social
risk. You guys if you guys want access
to it, check it out into the
cryptoverse.com. We still have that sale
going on. Make sure you guys check that
out uh if you're interested. And um and
also, we are going to be announcing the
conference really, really soon, probably
within the next few days. So, if you
want access, or if you want to get
updates about the conference, go to
benjamin cowan.com, and then you can
navigate to the conference tab and put
in your email, and we'll send out that
email as soon as we have that
information. But yeah, it's an
interesting time in the markets. Retail
has been leaving for years. There's
dozens of us left at this point.
Hopefully, we can come back. I think
there's a good chance we'll see social
interest bottom out. Hopefully later
this year. Um
I think there's a good a good case to be
made that it could bottom out later this
year.
And and we'll see what was what happens,
what sort of lies ahead on on the other
side of that. But if you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe, give
the video a thumbs up, and I'll see you
guys next time. Bye.